>> Jerome Hardaway: Add
value consistently, right?
That is something that people do
not understand about networking.
I am trying to always add value
to the people I work with and
I want to network with.
I want, when I have a W,
it's all of our wins, right?
When you have a W, it's all of our W.
I'm celebrating your win.
I make sure I'm around people
where the wins are ethical and
I have no problem celebrating those Ws,
right?
And I want the exact same thing for me.
So that's where you wanna add value.
I'm the biggest cheerleader, Frontend
Masters did something cool, I'm like, yes.
I'm like, even if they don't share
my articles or my workshops,
I'm sitting there sharing
other people's stuff.
I'm nagging, I nagged Mark on
Cody Lindley's Frontend Handbook for
two years before they dropped
a new one cuz I wanted one so
bad cuz I loved that resource, right?
Not, I want to take over that,
no, I want that resource.
Cuz that's how good it is, I've never
met Cody Lindley, I couldn't pick him
out of a lineup, but I love that resource,
and I'm like, no, I want more of that.
My troops want that, I want that,
we need that out here in these streets.
They just dropped it about a month ago,
read it front or
back I love playbooks I
hope they do more of them.
I love the playbook style but
you wanna add value like yes,
this relationship I'm sharing about this
relationship all the time, right, you but
that's what you wanna do.
You wanna make it reciprocal.
You don't want to edit
to flow one direction.
Whereas a lot of people, that's how
they want, they expect networking and
mentorship to do,
is to flow just towards them.
But instead it's like the yin-yang symbol,
it's circular.
It's you're always flowing into
each other, flowing and pouring.
So add your value consistently.
Product feedback loop for
junior developers.
Junior developers, for
every time you send a resume,
you should be building three features or
doing three commits, right?
Four commits.
I see too many engineers,
especially right now,
we're seeing the Twitterfation of
LinkedIn, as I like to call it,
where the juniors are coming on LinkedIn,
trying to be loud and snarky for
attention, and it's like all you're doing
is annoying the old people on LinkedIn.
Do something to show value.
Ask us about a product that
you're building or project and
ask us where you're feedback.
It's all you're gonna do is
you're gonna get muted or
disconnected from on LinkedIn.
There's no need to be, you don't need to
bring the Twitter snarkiness over LinkedIn
and keep the Twitter
snarkiness over there,
right that's why there's
a separation of concerns.
We don't want that over here
where old in our rocking chair,
get off our lawn unless you're
doing value right like that.
That's where we're at, right?
I have two troops that, well,
two prospective troops.
And I'm like, I want to counsel them
as we used to say in the military.
I wanna counsel them, I'm like,
please stop being snarky on LinkedIn.
All you're doing is having the people
that think about giving you jobs,
not want to give you jobs, just making
all the people not wanna talk to you.
Please stop that.
Add value.
Please do that.
So you're a junior,
that's what you should be focused on.
Seniors, mid to seniors,
leverage those existing connections.
I cannot hesitate today.
Just pick one person.
Don't DM them the minute you see
them like of course, just go,
you pick the person,
tomorrow's a good day.
If you don't do it tomorrow,
wait till Monday.
Don't DM people on Friday like
a monster on LinkedIn, right?
That's the only thing worse than that
is emailing someone at work about
something on a Friday,
right before 4.30PM.
Don't do that, wait till Monday,
DM the person, say you wanna catch up,
see if they have any time.
Do that.
But don't start going through
your Rolodex and network and
start building relationships.
I'm also on LinkedIn.
Hit me up on LinkedIn
if you have a chance.
Don't hesitate to connect with me,
I love talking to a Frontend Masters
troops all over the globe.
I've done it from India, China, Taiwan,
anywhere that there's a Frontend
masters person, I talk to them.
And I love doing one-on-ones with you all.
You all are like my favorite
people cuz I have ten
of all of the coursework I've seen.
I like the Frontend Masters group
because they tend to be a lot more
serious when it comes to, I want you
to tell me the things that I need
to do right now that I
can be like actionable.
And I like that.
I like people that want what are the
actionable things that I can do today?
So like, I like talking that to that crew.
So networking is more than just
connections, trust and credibility.
We've talked about how do you build trust?
You build trust by executing on
what people tell you to do, right?
That's the simplest way of build trust.
My wife, she's gonna trust me only
when I'm on my video game, and
my wife asked me to take out the trash.
She's gonna trust me to take out
the trash and I'll say okay,
I'll take out the trash while I'm playing
cuz I've taken out the trash before.
Now, whenever I'm playing a video game,
I'm never taking out the trash when she
sees me on my Xbox, she's not gonna trust
me and she's going to be like, uh-uh, no,
I'm gonna get on your nerves
to get off those sticks and
take out the trash, right?
That's how the game is played.
But if she knows that, I'm like,
all right, so I'm gonna get done with
this match don't take it,
I'm gonna beat this dude really fast and
then I'm gonna go here and
then I'm gonna take out a trash.
Okay, and I do that?
There you go, trust establish, all right?
I made that small deposit
into the trust safety bank.
Listen like they say, it's like a bank.
You can do one,
you have a small deposit, you mess up,
you're taken out of the bank lending you
always end up taking more out the bank.
And so I remember doing a small deposit
of trust with people that you're trying
to build connections with,
that's how you do it.
Credibility, focus on building real work,
showcasing people how they that you
care publicly about things are doing,
that's how you build credibility, right?
It's a secret sauce.
Someone pours into you,
then you execute on them,
you let people know, hey, this person
taught me, told me how to do this.
It showed a better result, I wanna
appreciate it, that builds your trust,
that builds your credibility.
So consistently showcase work.
Feedback, implement on that feedback,
keeping your word, and you'll build,
over time, a very strong professional
reputation that's gonna follow you,
and something you'll be able
to lean on when you need to.
Like I said, focus on adding value and
meaningful connections.
Like I said, you are not looking for
10,000, you're looking for 100
people that whatever mission you're gonna
go on in life, they're gonna support.